### Hurricane Agatha

[[edit](/w/index.php?title=1975_Pacific_hurricane_season&action=edit&section=3
"Edit section: Hurricane Agatha")]

Category 1 hurricane (SSHWS)  
---  
[![](//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/b/bf/AgathaJun419751745UTCSMS2.png/150px-
AgathaJun419751745UTCSMS2.png)](/wiki/File:AgathaJun419751745UTCSMS2.png)
[![](//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/f/f7/Agatha_1975_track.png/150px-
Agatha_1975_track.png)](/wiki/File:Agatha_1975_track.png)  
Duration| June 2 – June 5  
Peak intensity| 80 mph (130 km/h) (1-min);  
≤1005 [mbar](/wiki/Bar_\(unit\) "Bar \(unit\)") ([hPa](/wiki/Pascal_\(unit\)
"Pascal \(unit\)"))  
  
An area of disturbed weather about 290 mi (467 km) southwest of
[Acapulco](/wiki/Acapulco "Acapulco") formed on June 1. It organized into a
tropical depression the next day. After heading southwestward, it turned to
the northwest and strengthened into Tropical Storm Agatha on June 2. Agatha
maintained its course and steadily intensified. It reached hurricane intensity
on June 3 while located about 170 mi (270 km) southwest of
[Zihuatanejo](/wiki/Zihuatanejo,_Guerrero "Zihuatanejo, Guerrero"). Hurricane
Agatha started weakening thereafter, becoming a tropical storm on June 4 and a
depression on June 5. It dissipated shortly afterwards. At this time, Agatha
was located about 140 mi (230 km) south of the [Tres Marias
Islands](/wiki/Tres_Marias_Islands "Tres Marias Islands").[4]

Even though Agatha passed close to Mexico as it weakened, no impact is known
to have been caused.[4] Waves caused by Agatha did impact a ship called the
_Polynesian Diakan_. A Greek freighter en route from [Pago
Pago](/wiki/Pago_Pago,_American_Samoa "Pago Pago, American Samoa") to
[Terminal Island, California](/wiki/Terminal_Island,_California "Terminal
Island, California"), the _Polynesian Diakan_ began flooding on June 3,
forcing the 32-man crew to abandon the vessel.[6] The exact cause of the
initial flooding was unknown, but was speculated to be primarily due to [cargo
shifting](/w/index.php?title=Cargo_shifting&action=edit&redlink=1 "Cargo
shifting \(page does not exist\)") and not the weather.[9] The crew was
rescued by the [United States Coast Guard](/wiki/United_States_Coast_Guard
"United States Coast Guard").[6] Three members required hospitalization.[9]
After being reached on June 6 by a tugboat in a salvage attempt, the vessel
capsized and sank near [San Clemente Island](/wiki/San_Clemente_Island "San
Clemente Island") on June 7, taking its multimillion-dollar cargo of 71
containers of canned [tuna](/wiki/Tuna "Tuna") with it. The reason for the
sinking was unknown.[7]